# My New Blog!

I've got a lot to say, and now I have a place to say it!!!!!

Read all my amazing posts!!!!! You can load them into the app with: `rake load_blog:load_shit`

Since I know you want to read them all, I designed my page to show EVERYTHING on the front page of the site!!!!!

I know it is a little slow (but totes worth it!!!!)... _Do you know how I can make it faster?_


Purpose
=======

This rails app blog is intentionally designed terribly.  Modify the
app to improve performance of page loads, without letting the user
experience suffer (eg: one comment per page is fast, but clicking
through them all is annoying).

Deploy your app to heroku. Use whatever techniques you can think of
to make it fast. Think carefully (or read up) on how Heroku serves
up your site to find ways to get faster.

Submit your own URL. Put your metrics in the README... you want to
show how many posts you can load divided by the load time in ms. If
you are using caching, include your numbers with a cache hit and a
cache miss.

Competition Guidelines:
=======

* The blog must contain full posts on the index page
* All posts, comments, and replies must be accessible with a mouse
(eg, there has to be a click path, they can't be left out)
* We are attempting to optimize usability, so pages with poor UX
will be penalized
* If post_time = (posts on the page) / (ms to load page), then your
score is: cache_miss(post_time) * cache_hit(post_time)
* Your cache_miss time will be found by restarting all servers, and
loading "/" a few times to get an average from Chrome inspector.
* Your cache_hit time will be found by reloading that same page a
few times to get an average from Chrome inspector.
* A cool prize to the winner!

Optimization log
=======

### add miniprofiler
Adds load time metrics to page.
<pre>
index
    104658.2 ms
    106728.2 ms
</pre>


### eager loading
- implement eager loading for the comments by adding :post to Comment.all in app/controllers/comments_controller.rb
```   @comments = Comment.all.includes(:post)```

<pre>
index
    103850.0 ms
</pre>

- added :comment to app/controllers/replies_controller.rb
```   @replies = Reply.all.includes(:comment)```

<pre>
index (rendering posts and comments and replies)
    97475.6 ms
    80943.0 ms
    78684.1 ms
show (posts/1, render 1 post, no comments, no replies)
    142.2 ms
    200.4 ms
    58.1 ms
</pre>


### optimization through better design
- removed comments and replies from index
  This changes the index page from displaying O(n^2) items to only
  displaying O(n) items.  The price is that now the user must click
  to get to the post show page, where all 200 comments and replies
  are displayed.

<pre>
index (rendering posts only)
    361.6 ms
    165.2 ms
</pre>

- put comments and replies into posts/show

<pre>
show (posts/1, render 1 post and comments and replies)
    760.5 ms
    737.5 ms
    872.7 ms
</pre>


### add bullet
Checks for inefficient DB queries.

- N+1 Query detected
Fixed one of these on the index page.  Still have one on the show page.  Not sure
if that one can/should be fixed.


### use metric_fu
This didn't give me a lot of useful data in the context of this assignment,
though I cannot help but wonder if that is my lack of knowledge.
